---
layout: post
title:  "Miller 2001 "Moderate Modal Realism""
date:   2020-04-21 05:10 :00 +0900
categories: jekyll update
---

Miller, Richard B. “Moderate Modal Realism.” Philosophia (United States) 28, no. 1–4 (2001): 3–38. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02379767.

Miller argues that modal realism is not only of David Lewis. Rather, modal realism can (and should) been seen as a more general stance. "[T]he main flaw of Modal Realism, its ontological extravagance, can be completely eliminated without any loss of explanatory power" [p. 3]. "How would Modal Realism look if developed by philosophers who disagreed with Lewis about nominalism, personal identity, minds, reductionism, or materialism? Such interesting and potentially fruitful questions go unasked when we persist in thinking of Modal Realism as the idiosyncrasy of one brilliant mind." [pp. 3-4] By suggesting such *a* moderate modal realism (yes, there can be several possible forms of moderate modal realism, as Miller admits), Miller tries to highlight the genuine potential of modal realism, which is more plausible than its rivals (actualism and fictionalism). 

This long paper goes as follows. Miller begins with two problems which Lewisian modal realism faces: epistemological worry and island universe problem (Bigelow 1987) [sec. 1]. But he thinks its rival ersatzism is further more problematic because ersatizism relies on the concept of representation -- which causes infinite regress [sec. 2]. Fictionalism (Rosen 1980) has similar issues for it offers just a more indirect version of representation theory [sec. 3]. Before giving his own suggestion, Miller discusses what is counted as parsimony [sec. 4]. His own contribution mainly starts in the next section 5. What condition is unnecessary for David Lewis to be a moderate modal realist? That is, the existence of the outer sphere, which consists of alien entities of our real world and your ontology (list of what exists). The outer sphere is required for philosophers to make sense (and significant) their disagreements on metaphysical/philosophical debates [sec. 6]. The author tries to cherry-pick the utility given by an outer sphere and no ontological commitment it asks. Consequently, his resulted moderate modal realism would become a "hybrid theory" [sec. 7], meaning that it is realist with respect to the inner sphere but fictionalist on the outer sphere. In conclusive remark, Miller emphasizes his version is not perfect but at least calls some attention because "Moderate Modal Realism avoids the extravagance at no loss of explanatory power".    
